docs/game-design.md, before:

# Game Design

The following document outlines our proposed game design including: the flow and structure of the game, game mechanics. For the basic wireframes associated with the game interface, consult the [wireframes](#wireframes) at the end of this document.

## Global Definitions

Throughout the following sections, various terminology, with this definition table being a non-exhaustive reference point for a quick meaning of various terms.

|            Term | Definition                                                                              |
| --------------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|    Emerald Mine | The retro game this design is conceptually referenced from                              |
|         Emerald | Reward system currency                                                                  |
| Emerald _shard_ | Reward system currency (smaller unit)                                                   |
|          Player | A connected client that is actively playing                                             |
|       Spectator | A connected client that can only passively observe the game                             |
|       Moderator | A connected client that can oversee the game state                                      |
|         Ranking | A global leader-board of player account rewards                                         |
|            Team | A group of players that must collaborate to play the game                               |
|    Drawing team | A player group that has been tasked with sketching a word                               |
|   Guessing team | A player group that has been tasked with reaching consensus to guess a sketch           |
|          Sketch | A real-time 2D canvas that drawing players can use to sketch a word                     |
|            Word | A word or phrase to be drawn or guessed by a team                                       |
|           Guess | A word that is chosen by a team that represents their guess for the sketch              |
|           Level | A multiplier representing how many iterations of the mine a team has completed together |
|           Round | A single iteration of the sketching or guessing phase of the game                       |
|         Digging | The progression of a team through the level by accurately sketching or guessing         |
|     Game server | The central instance of the game logic server that players connect to                   |

## Overview

Our proposed game is a web-based, collaborative, team based sketch guessing game. The game is Emerald Mine™ themed, and uses various elements from the game, but with a different style, interface and gameplay mechanics.
Teams work together to "dig" distance in a mine to receive emerald shards by guessing words based on sketches.

## Game parameters

| Name         | Max        | Minimum   |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- |
| Server       | 99 players | 9 players |
| Team members | 30 players | 3 players |
| Teams        | 33 teams   | 3 teams   |
| Spectator    | ∞          | 0         |

---

## Teams

In the game, players are split into teams of 3-33 players, and depending on the game round, are tasked to either draw a word (the drawing team), or come up with a shared guess as to what the sketch represents (the guessing team).

Once a team is formed, new members can only join if the team is still in level 1--due to level progression. This prevents unbalanced rewards given out to the new players who have not contributed to the team yet.

Members of the teams may leave any time. Once the team is no longer comprised of at least 3 players, the team is destroyed and other members can no longer continue.

> Teams are based on a current game session, and are not persistent. They only exist for the indefinite lifecycle of the game

### Initial match making

Once a player joins they will be put on hold until they can join a team in level 1 with at least 2 other players or form a new one. The game will be put on hold until there are at least 3 teams in total (with at least 3 players per each team).

### Team composition

As defined, in the _Game parameters_, the maximum number of players in the game is 99, but with a maximum of 33 teams of 3 player each, or 3 teams of 30 players--and any combination in between. The concrete composition of the game players is not strictly defined, as long as the total number of players, the number of active teams, and players within a team are within the mentioned bounds.

### Drawing team

#### Gameplay

In each round, one team must draw a given word for the other teams to guess. This specific team is randomly chosen at the start of every game round by the game server.

Once a team has been chosen to draw, a category is shown to the members of the team and they can elect a player to draw. With a chosen player to draw, the actual word is revealed, and the player starts drawing the word. The player who was elected to draw will not be able to draw again for the next 2 rounds, to allow for a more fair distribution of player involvement within the team.

The rest of the drawing team can observe the sketch and see other teams guessing states, and communicate with their assigned drawing player to improve the sketch.

#### Balancing

In terms of balancing, if no guessing teams correctly guess the word based on the drawing, no digging distance is made for the drawing team. The more teams guess the word, the more "digging distance" is awarded to the drawing teams progression through the mine/level. This incentivizes the drawing team to accurately portray the given word in the sketch, and cuts down on spamming the canvas with unrelated information, as the team is directly rewarded for how well they can draw the word.

### Guessing team

#### Gameplay

In a guessing team, as soon as the sketching phase commences, the team will have to reach consensus on what word is being sketched within a certain timeframe. The exact range of time can be changed by the Moderator. This guessed word must be agreed on by the majority of the teams members in order to be made as the teams final guess.

In order to arrive on a team guess, players in the team must first individually guess a word. This can be done either by initially writing the guess in the dedicated UI element, or by clicking an existing guess the team has made--effectively changing the players guess.

All players in the team can see what their teams internal guesses are so far, together with how many people have "voted" for each guess. Players can also see what their teams final guess will be at any moment, and the amount of players still needed to reach consensus on the guess.

Once a guess is made majority, it is made final and submitted; the team can make no more guesses and have to wait for all other teams to submit their guesses or until the round time runs out.

In the case that a team does not agree on a word to guess (and the time runs out), the most commonly agreed guess is submitted instead. This is based on the final highest guessed word in terms of time, that the team has come up with.

When all the guessing teams have submitted a guess, or the timer runs out, answers from all teams as well as the results (correct solution, team rewards, etc.).

#### Round rewards

If a word is guessed correctly, a great amount of digging progress is awarded (plus multipliers). If the word is not guessed correctly, a small amount of progress is still given to make sure that the drawing team does not make the drawing unguessable.

## Levels

For progressing with your team, as soon as the end of the level/mine is reached, the team restarts with a higher level, increasing the rewards that they can obtain. Due to this, there is an endless amount levels.

Levels are also only specific to a team, without influencing match making or the game itself. This mean that all the teams are in the same game, with each teams final level reward being different depending on their level.

Each level has a defined range of emeralds, and all emeralds must be collected in order to progress to the next level. Teams have to dig to the end of the tunnel to progress to finish the level and to keep all the emeralds they collected in that level.

Leaving the game mid-level will result in the player not keeping the emeralds the team has earned in that level. Once a level is completed, the team can keep the emeralds and they are placed back to the start with a new level indicator (counter). Players individually obtain this emerald reward, and their rankings are updated accordingly.

To progress, teams must dig the distance to reach the end of the level. During the digging, they can collect the emeralds that are placed at various progress points in the level.

### Player flow

The endless nature means that there is no end-game or defeat condition, and players can simply play for as long as they want to. Since rankings are persistent, players are also incentivized to return to the game to play additional levels.

### Rewards and penalties overview

To reward better gameplay by teams, there are digging distance bonuses/multipliers for teams based on how fast they locked in a correct guess. For the drawing team, the multiplier is based on how many teams were able to guess their sketch. Players are penalized for leaving the game without reaching the end of level (loosing all collected emeralds in that level).

The emerald shards you earn are multiplied by the "levels completed" counter, so in higher levels, teams can earn more emerald shards when reaching an emerald ore

> An emerald shard is a fraction of an emerald, whereas an emerald is a whole number of emerald shards.

## Moderator

Besides players, a moderator role is defined in the game, with this client being able to affect the parameters and state of the game.

### State influence

Moderators can (de)buff teams by temporarily increasing or decreasing a teams digging distance multiplier. Additionally, moderators can also kick teams for inappropriate behavior.

### Parameter influence

To influence the game logic itself, moderating users are able to edit the word bank available going forward, as well as the parameters revolving around the round duration, and level difficulty (distance).

## Spectators

A second non-player role is also used is also defined for spectating the game. Spectators can observe the game, and can see the sketch canvas, but not the word currently being drawn to avoid cheating. On top of this, anonymous spectators can't see the chat of other teams. Spectators can _not_ interact with the game in any way.

## Chatting

Communication is an integral part of the core game loop, therefore chat functionality is defined for teams to use. The chat log contains updates from the game state (what word your team should draw, the state of the game phase, etc).

For all teams, there is the option to send a message to other players in the team. This is used to communicate and allow the game to play the game.

No public chat is used, and teams can not communicate with players in other teams.

## Ranking

All players have their own persistent ranking, based on the number of emerald shards they have obtained while playing in teams. This ranking can be seen by anyone, displaying usernames and emeralds, but also their game performance statistics with metrics such as drawing accuracy.

## Wireframes

### Home screen

![HomeScreen](./resources/wireframes/homescreen.png "home screen image")

- the form appears on a white/black page, it's not all dirt
- font can be changed to a more similar one to the one in emerald mine
- login and signup can be moved to a previous screen if we don't allow people to play without being signed in
- make background with lower opacity (60-70%)

### Login

![Login](./resources/wireframes/login.png "login image")

- basic login screen
- signup form looks the same (maybe with a confirmation password field)
- the form appears on a white/black page, it's not all dirt
- font can be changed to a more similar one to the one in emerald mine
- make background with lower opacity (60-70%)

### GUI

![GUI](./resources/wireframes/gui.png "GUI image")

- adding more emerald mine elements
- adding more drawing tools
- separate the drawer, guesser and spectator view

### Ranking

![Rank](./resources/wireframes/ranking.png "Ranking screen")

- maybe fancier 1, 2 and 3 places
- copy how the emerald count looks in the GUI and maybe use that

### Rules

- a page with a "RULES" title and text underneath
- no dedicated wireframe

### Moderator

![Moderator](./resources/wireframes/moderator.png "Moderator view")

- the modal appears on top of the screen upon chosen moderator action
- behind the modal the view is similar to spectator one
- the modal depends on the chosen action that the moderator want to perform

Commit message:

moderator and warning wireframes added + description in the game-design document

docs/game-design.md, after:

# Game Design

The following document outlines our proposed game design including: the flow and structure of the game, game mechanics. For the basic wireframes associated with the game interface, consult the [wireframes](#wireframes) at the end of this document.

## Global Definitions

Throughout the following sections, various terminology, with this definition table being a non-exhaustive reference point for a quick meaning of various terms.

|            Term | Definition                                                                              |
| --------------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
|    Emerald Mine | The retro game this design is conceptually referenced from                              |
|         Emerald | Reward system currency                                                                  |
| Emerald _shard_ | Reward system currency (smaller unit)                                                   |
|          Player | A connected client that is actively playing                                             |
|       Spectator | A connected client that can only passively observe the game                             |
|       Moderator | A connected client that can oversee the game state                                      |
|         Ranking | A global leader-board of player account rewards                                         |
|            Team | A group of players that must collaborate to play the game                               |
|    Drawing team | A player group that has been tasked with sketching a word                               |
|   Guessing team | A player group that has been tasked with reaching consensus to guess a sketch           |
|          Sketch | A real-time 2D canvas that drawing players can use to sketch a word                     |
|            Word | A word or phrase to be drawn or guessed by a team                                       |
|           Guess | A word that is chosen by a team that represents their guess for the sketch              |
|           Level | A multiplier representing how many iterations of the mine a team has completed together |
|           Round | A single iteration of the sketching or guessing phase of the game                       |
|         Digging | The progression of a team through the level by accurately sketching or guessing         |
|     Game server | The central instance of the game logic server that players connect to                   |

## Overview

Our proposed game is a web-based, collaborative, team based sketch guessing game. The game is Emerald Mine™ themed, and uses various elements from the game, but with a different style, interface and gameplay mechanics.
Teams work together to "dig" distance in a mine to receive emerald shards by guessing words based on sketches.

## Game parameters

| Name         | Max        | Minimum   |
| ------------ | ---------- | --------- |
| Server       | 99 players | 9 players |
| Team members | 30 players | 3 players |
| Teams        | 33 teams   | 3 teams   |
| Spectator    | ∞          | 0         |

---

## Teams

In the game, players are split into teams of 3-33 players, and depending on the game round, are tasked to either draw a word (the drawing team), or come up with a shared guess as to what the sketch represents (the guessing team).

Once a team is formed, new members can only join if the team is still in level 1--due to level progression. This prevents unbalanced rewards given out to the new players who have not contributed to the team yet.

Members of the teams may leave any time. Once the team is no longer comprised of at least 3 players, the team is destroyed and other members can no longer continue.

> Teams are based on a current game session, and are not persistent. They only exist for the indefinite lifecycle of the game

### Initial match making

Once a player joins they will be put on hold until they can join a team in level 1 with at least 2 other players or form a new one. The game will be put on hold until there are at least 3 teams in total (with at least 3 players per each team).

### Team composition

As defined, in the _Game parameters_, the maximum number of players in the game is 99, but with a maximum of 33 teams of 3 player each, or 3 teams of 30 players--and any combination in between. The concrete composition of the game players is not strictly defined, as long as the total number of players, the number of active teams, and players within a team are within the mentioned bounds.

### Drawing team

#### Gameplay

In each round, one team must draw a given word for the other teams to guess. This specific team is randomly chosen at the start of every game round by the game server.

Once a team has been chosen to draw, a category is shown to the members of the team and they can elect a player to draw. With a chosen player to draw, the actual word is revealed, and the player starts drawing the word. The player who was elected to draw will not be able to draw again for the next 2 rounds, to allow for a more fair distribution of player involvement within the team.

The rest of the drawing team can observe the sketch and see other teams guessing states, and communicate with their assigned drawing player to improve the sketch.

#### Balancing

In terms of balancing, if no guessing teams correctly guess the word based on the drawing, no digging distance is made for the drawing team. The more teams guess the word, the more "digging distance" is awarded to the drawing teams progression through the mine/level. This incentivizes the drawing team to accurately portray the given word in the sketch, and cuts down on spamming the canvas with unrelated information, as the team is directly rewarded for how well they can draw the word.

### Guessing team

#### Gameplay

In a guessing team, as soon as the sketching phase commences, the team will have to reach consensus on what word is being sketched within a certain timeframe. The exact range of time can be changed by the Moderator. This guessed word must be agreed on by the majority of the teams members in order to be made as the teams final guess.

In order to arrive on a team guess, players in the team must first individually guess a word. This can be done either by initially writing the guess in the dedicated UI element, or by clicking an existing guess the team has made--effectively changing the players guess.

All players in the team can see what their teams internal guesses are so far, together with how many people have "voted" for each guess. Players can also see what their teams final guess will be at any moment, and the amount of players still needed to reach consensus on the guess.

Once a guess is made majority, it is made final and submitted; the team can make no more guesses and have to wait for all other teams to submit their guesses or until the round time runs out.

In the case that a team does not agree on a word to guess (and the time runs out), the most commonly agreed guess is submitted instead. This is based on the final highest guessed word in terms of time, that the team has come up with.

When all the guessing teams have submitted a guess, or the timer runs out, answers from all teams as well as the results (correct solution, team rewards, etc.).

#### Round rewards

If a word is guessed correctly, a great amount of digging progress is awarded (plus multipliers). If the word is not guessed correctly, a small amount of progress is still given to make sure that the drawing team does not make the drawing unguessable.

## Levels

For progressing with your team, as soon as the end of the level/mine is reached, the team restarts with a higher level, increasing the rewards that they can obtain. Due to this, there is an endless amount levels.

Levels are also only specific to a team, without influencing match making or the game itself. This mean that all the teams are in the same game, with each teams final level reward being different depending on their level.

Each level has a defined range of emeralds, and all emeralds must be collected in order to progress to the next level. Teams have to dig to the end of the tunnel to progress to finish the level and to keep all the emeralds they collected in that level.

Leaving the game mid-level will result in the player not keeping the emeralds the team has earned in that level. Once a level is completed, the team can keep the emeralds and they are placed back to the start with a new level indicator (counter). Players individually obtain this emerald reward, and their rankings are updated accordingly.

To progress, teams must dig the distance to reach the end of the level. During the digging, they can collect the emeralds that are placed at various progress points in the level.

### Player flow

The endless nature means that there is no end-game or defeat condition, and players can simply play for as long as they want to. Since rankings are persistent, players are also incentivized to return to the game to play additional levels.

### Rewards and penalties overview

To reward better gameplay by teams, there are digging distance bonuses/multipliers for teams based on how fast they locked in a correct guess. For the drawing team, the multiplier is based on how many teams were able to guess their sketch. Players are penalized for leaving the game without reaching the end of level (loosing all collected emeralds in that level).

The emerald shards you earn are multiplied by the "levels completed" counter, so in higher levels, teams can earn more emerald shards when reaching an emerald ore

> An emerald shard is a fraction of an emerald, whereas an emerald is a whole number of emerald shards.

## Moderator

Besides players, a moderator role is defined in the game, with this client being able to affect the parameters and state of the game.

### State influence

Moderators can (de)buff teams by temporarily increasing or decreasing a teams digging distance multiplier. Additionally, moderators can also kick teams for inappropriate behavior.

### Parameter influence

To influence the game logic itself, moderating users are able to edit the word bank available going forward, as well as the parameters revolving around the round duration, and level difficulty (distance).

## Spectators

A second non-player role is also used is also defined for spectating the game. Spectators can observe the game, and can see the sketch canvas, but not the word currently being drawn to avoid cheating. On top of this, anonymous spectators can't see the chat of other teams. Spectators can _not_ interact with the game in any way.

## Chatting

Communication is an integral part of the core game loop, therefore chat functionality is defined for teams to use. The chat log contains updates from the game state (what word your team should draw, the state of the game phase, etc).

For all teams, there is the option to send a message to other players in the team. This is used to communicate and allow the game to play the game.

No public chat is used, and teams can not communicate with players in other teams.

## Ranking

All players have their own persistent ranking, based on the number of emerald shards they have obtained while playing in teams. This ranking can be seen by anyone, displaying usernames and emeralds, but also their game performance statistics with metrics such as drawing accuracy.

## Wireframes

### Home screen

![HomeScreen](./resources/wireframes/homescreen.png "home screen image")

- the form appears on a white/black page, it's not all dirt
- font can be changed to a more similar one to the one in emerald mine
- login and signup can be moved to a previous screen if we don't allow people to play without being signed in
- make background with lower opacity (60-70%)

### Login

![Login](./resources/wireframes/login.png "login image")

- basic login screen
- signup form looks the same (maybe with a confirmation password field)
- the form appears on a white/black page, it's not all dirt
- font can be changed to a more similar one to the one in emerald mine
- make background with lower opacity (60-70%)

### GUI

![GUI](./resources/wireframes/gui.png "GUI image")

- adding more emerald mine elements
- adding more drawing tools
- separate the drawer, guesser and spectator view

### Ranking

![Rank](./resources/wireframes/ranking.png "Ranking screen")

- maybe fancier 1, 2 and 3 places
- copy how the emerald count looks in the GUI and maybe use that

### Rules

- a page with a "RULES" title and text underneath
- no dedicated wireframe

### Moderator

#### Moderator view of the canvas
![Moderator](./resources/wireframes/moderator-buttons.png "Moderator view")

- view of the moderator is similar to the player's view, but has additional buttons:
  - the moderator can kick out a player, prevent them to send messages and send them a warning (warning form below)
  - they can boost, de-boost or kick out the whole group
  - they can clear the canvas and ban the drawer form his role, if what he is drawing is inappropriate
  - they can delete messages from the chat and ban the player from sending more, if they are being offensive so anyone
- the modal appears on top of the screen upon chosen moderator action
- behind the modal the view is similar to spectator one
- the modal depends on the chosen action that the moderator want to perform

#### Moderator warning message form
![WarningForm](./resources/wireframes/warning-message-form.jpg "Warning message form")

- The moderator can write out a private message (warning) to one of the players upon clicking the correct button
- The form shows in front of the view so the moderator can still spectate what is going on
- The <em>X</em> symbol closes the form without sending the message (if the moderator decides later that the warning is not needed) 

#### Player's view of the warning
![WarningForm](./resources/wireframes/warning-message-player-view-form.jpg "Warning message player view")

- The player sees the warning content
- The player closes the warning by clicking the <em>X</em> symbol
