docs/standups.md, before:

# Stand ups

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 11.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- wrote and finished CoC

**Ana**

- worked on the development tools and development protocol

- must finish the protocol – needs help

- she wrote docs for svelte and nodejs

**Melissa, Lukman, Vincenzo**

- worked on user stories

- need to add backlog issues

**Marko, Daria**

- just started

- helping others

**Mira**

- wireframes – home screen, login form, ranking

- word doc for wireframes with comments in one drive

- add them to gitlab in md

**Craig**

- worked on the requirements

- needs to finish them

**Vedat**

- group roles and teams' composition

- has to finish it

**Philippos**

- game design doc

- helped Peter with CoC

---

## Stand-up 2 - 14.02.2022

### Sub-group 1

- Initialize frontend project

**Vincenzo**

- Us3Bi01 - Create canvas component
- Us3Bi03 - Create drawing tools

**Mira**

- Us3Bi01 - Create canvas component
- Us3Bi02 - Create separate roles for drawing and viewing canvas

**Craig**

- Us3Bi04 - Create websocket for transferring canvas content between drawer and server

**Melissa**

- Us3Bi04 - Create websocket for transferring canvas content between drawer and server

**Ana**

- Research on logic of the canvas

**Daria**

- Research on logic of the canvas

---

## Sprint 1 planning - 14.02.2022

- Team is splitting up into the two defined subgroups
- Teams do separate meetings and write down notes
- Group 1: Work us User Story 3
  - Come up with backlogs for their user story
  - Sets up the frontend project
- Group 2: Work us User Story 5
  - Come up with backlogs for their user story
  - Sets up the backend project

---

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 14.02.2022

- Vedat stays the SCRUM master
- Vedat needs help with Git
- Team came up with new backlogs
- The existing backlogs for US5 are too massive

---

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 18.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- People who were not present:
  - Vedat: Give reason to be absent in time to all team members
  - Anna: Is sick, gave reason long before the meeting
  - Melissa: Let all team members know that she will be absent with a valid reason
- Craig:
  - US3-BI04 (Just study, no actual work done)
  - Likely will need help
- Daria:
  - Almost done, only few things need to be changed
- Filippos:
  - US05-BI03 (All done, merged)
- Lukman
  - US05-BI04 (All done, needs testing)
  - Waiting for other team member to confirm (told them about this)
- Marko
  - Works on local machine
  - Might need help on connection the ends
  - Will finish hopefully tonight
- Mira
  - Worked on Canvas with Vince
  - Encountered some trouble
  - Tailwind still doesn't work perfectly (needs help, though should be fixed)
- Peter
  - Work finished, merged
- Vince

  - Worked with Mira
  - After the weekend ready for new task

- Generic remarks:
  - Next time we should make more, smaller backlog items to make sure we have less blocking items

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 18.02.2022

- Vedat, our SCRUM master is absent. Peter is being the SCRUM master for this meeting.
- Created a new BackLog item (US05-BI07)
- Assigned a new backlog item to all present members

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 28.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- People who were not present:
  - Marko: Did not give a reason in advance to the team only to one team member today at 8am
  - Lukman: Late but is coming

- Vedat
  - Needed client side, so did work of Lukman
  - Needs help, work not yet done

- Mira
  - Progress made, not yet done, will be ready maybe today
  - Would like some help

- Daria
  - Didn't get new task, thus didn't do any task due to real life issues 

- Vince
  - Yesterday got new task
  - Progress made

- Anna
  - Got no tasks due to COVID, thus no progress made by her

- Craig
  - Works with Melissa
  - Went well but encountered a glitch, need help (with canvas)

- Melissa
  - Encountered merge issues, had to modify design
  - Need to discuss with team
  - Glitches found, need to discuss with team together
  - Task is basically dune, but is glitchy

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 01.03.2022

- Was a quick SCRUM meeting to assign new task to those who were done with their tasks
- Present: Filippos, Vedat (SCRUM master), Peter
- Goal:
  - Assign new items to Peter and Filippos
  - Help Vedat with his code
- Peter: Got task `US04-BI03`
- Filippos: Got task `US04–BI08`
- Other
  - Had a long discussion on what to do with Marko's tasks as we have no idea on the progress of his 2 tasks (other than some work being up on GitLab) and one task is vital for the demo for the publisher
  - No decision has been made: Hoping Marko will do his task in time and we won't take over in case he has made progress

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 04.02.2022
- Not present:
  - Ana: Sent message 1 hour before meeting that she can't attend due to her laptop being broken. She let us know that she is done with her task (models). She needs help with the deployment diagram
- Craig:
  - Task finished after help
- Mira:
  - Task finished, ready for merge
- Melisa:
  - Task finished, branch merged
- Filippos:
  - Item 50% done. Currently fixing merge conflicts and deploying the merged codes
  - Will be done with his item in a day
  - Suggested: A lot of branches are long out of date from main
- Vedat:
  - Was stuck on an issue with the backend, but Marko fix it for him. Branch now merged.
- Vince:
  - Finished with his item yesterday
  - Started working on an new item. Should be merged too
- Daria:
  - Needed to work on docs
  - Needs some help with the structure and the diagrams
- Lukman:
  - Done with his item, ready to get new item
- Marko:
  - Finished both item, but the usernames need to be changed (its hardcoded right not)
  - Progressbar is done, just missis some minor functionality
- Peter:
  - Done with his item
  - Started to fix styling issues since finished quickly with his main task. Fix are done. Styling and responsive design still needs polishing
- New SCRUM master for Group 1: **Mira**
- New SCRUM master for Group 2: **Lukman**
- Last merge: Sunday early afternoon for functionality
- Agreements on presentation for Sprint 1 pitch:
  - Presentation will go over: 
    - demo
    - what our game is about (quick recap)
    - plans for sprint 2
  - Mira will create the presentation slides
  - Mira, Melissa, Vince will present

Commit message:

docs: Add sprint 2 planning meeting notes

docs/standups.md, after:

# Stand ups

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 11.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- wrote and finished CoC

**Ana**

- worked on the development tools and development protocol

- must finish the protocol – needs help

- she wrote docs for svelte and nodejs

**Melissa, Lukman, Vincenzo**

- worked on user stories

- need to add backlog issues

**Marko, Daria**

- just started

- helping others

**Mira**

- wireframes – home screen, login form, ranking

- word doc for wireframes with comments in one drive

- add them to gitlab in md

**Craig**

- worked on the requirements

- needs to finish them

**Vedat**

- group roles and teams' composition

- has to finish it

**Philippos**

- game design doc

- helped Peter with CoC

---

## Stand-up 2 - 14.02.2022

### Sub-group 1

- Initialize frontend project

**Vincenzo**

- Us3Bi01 - Create canvas component
- Us3Bi03 - Create drawing tools

**Mira**

- Us3Bi01 - Create canvas component
- Us3Bi02 - Create separate roles for drawing and viewing canvas

**Craig**

- Us3Bi04 - Create websocket for transferring canvas content between drawer and server

**Melissa**

- Us3Bi04 - Create websocket for transferring canvas content between drawer and server

**Ana**

- Research on logic of the canvas

**Daria**

- Research on logic of the canvas

---

## Sprint 1 planning - 14.02.2022

- Team is splitting up into the two defined subgroups
- Teams do separate meetings and write down notes
- Group 1: Work us User Story 3
  - Come up with backlogs for their user story
  - Sets up the frontend project
- Group 2: Work us User Story 5
  - Come up with backlogs for their user story
  - Sets up the backend project

---

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 14.02.2022

- Vedat stays the SCRUM master
- Vedat needs help with Git
- Team came up with new backlogs
- The existing backlogs for US5 are too massive

---

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 18.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- People who were not present:
  - Vedat: Give reason to be absent in time to all team members
  - Anna: Is sick, gave reason long before the meeting
  - Melissa: Let all team members know that she will be absent with a valid reason
- Craig:
  - US3-BI04 (Just study, no actual work done)
  - Likely will need help
- Daria:
  - Almost done, only few things need to be changed
- Filippos:
  - US05-BI03 (All done, merged)
- Lukman
  - US05-BI04 (All done, needs testing)
  - Waiting for other team member to confirm (told them about this)
- Marko
  - Works on local machine
  - Might need help on connection the ends
  - Will finish hopefully tonight
- Mira
  - Worked on Canvas with Vince
  - Encountered some trouble
  - Tailwind still doesn't work perfectly (needs help, though should be fixed)
- Peter
  - Work finished, merged
- Vince

  - Worked with Mira
  - After the weekend ready for new task

- Generic remarks:
  - Next time we should make more, smaller backlog items to make sure we have less blocking items

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 18.02.2022

- Vedat, our SCRUM master is absent. Peter is being the SCRUM master for this meeting.
- Created a new BackLog item (US05-BI07)
- Assigned a new backlog item to all present members

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 28.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- People who were not present:
  - Marko: Did not give a reason in advance to the team only to one team member today at 8am
  - Lukman: Late but is coming

- Vedat
  - Needed client side, so did work of Lukman
  - Needs help, work not yet done

- Mira
  - Progress made, not yet done, will be ready maybe today
  - Would like some help

- Daria
  - Didn't get new task, thus didn't do any task due to real life issues 

- Vince
  - Yesterday got new task
  - Progress made

- Anna
  - Got no tasks due to COVID, thus no progress made by her

- Craig
  - Works with Melissa
  - Went well but encountered a glitch, need help (with canvas)

- Melissa
  - Encountered merge issues, had to modify design
  - Need to discuss with team
  - Glitches found, need to discuss with team together
  - Task is basically dune, but is glitchy

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 01.03.2022

- Was a quick SCRUM meeting to assign new task to those who were done with their tasks
- Present: Filippos, Vedat (SCRUM master), Peter
- Goal:
  - Assign new items to Peter and Filippos
  - Help Vedat with his code
- Peter: Got task `US04-BI03`
- Filippos: Got task `US04–BI08`
- Other
  - Had a long discussion on what to do with Marko's tasks as we have no idea on the progress of his 2 tasks (other than some work being up on GitLab) and one task is vital for the demo for the publisher
  - No decision has been made: Hoping Marko will do his task in time and we won't take over in case he has made progress

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 04.03.2022
- Not present:
  - Ana: Sent message 1 hour before meeting that she can't attend due to her laptop being broken. She let us know that she is done with her task (models). She needs help with the deployment diagram
- Craig:
  - Task finished after help
- Mira:
  - Task finished, ready for merge
- Melisa:
  - Task finished, branch merged
- Filippos:
  - Item 50% done. Currently fixing merge conflicts and deploying the merged codes
  - Will be done with his item in a day
  - Suggested: A lot of branches are long out of date from main
- Vedat:
  - Was stuck on an issue with the backend, but Marko fix it for him. Branch now merged.
- Vince:
  - Finished with his item yesterday
  - Started working on an new item. Should be merged too
- Daria:
  - Needed to work on docs
  - Needs some help with the structure and the diagrams
- Lukman:
  - Done with his item, ready to get new item
- Marko:
  - Finished both item, but the usernames need to be changed (its hardcoded right not)
  - Progressbar is done, just missis some minor functionality
- Peter:
  - Done with his item
  - Started to fix styling issues since finished quickly with his main task. Fix are done. Styling and responsive design still needs polishing
- New SCRUM master for Group 1: **Mira**
- New SCRUM master for Group 2: **Lukman**
- Last merge: Sunday early afternoon for functionality
- Agreements on presentation for Sprint 1 pitch:
  - Presentation will go over: 
    - demo
    - what our game is about (quick recap)
    - plans for sprint 2
  - Mira will create the presentation slides
  - Mira, Melissa, Vince will present

## SCRUM Sprint 1 retrospective (Entire team) - 07.03.2022
- Everyone is present
- See notes in `team-plan.md`

## SCRUM Sprint 2 planning (Entire team) - 07.03.2022
- Everyone is present
- Group 1 will work on:
  - US1
- Group 2 will work on:
  - US11
