# Stand ups

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 11.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- wrote and finished CoC

**Ana**

- worked on the development tools and development protocol

- must finish the protocol – needs help

- she wrote docs for svelte and nodejs

**Melissa, Lukman, Vincenzo**

- worked on user stories

- need to add backlog issues

**Marko, Daria**

- just started

- helping others

**Mira**

- wireframes – home screen, login form, ranking

- word doc for wireframes with comments in one drive

- add them to gitlab in md

**Craig**

- worked on the requirements

- needs to finish them

**Vedat**

- group roles and teams' composition

- has to finish it

**Philippos**

- game design doc

- helped Peter with CoC

---

## Stand-up 2 - 14.02.2022

### Sub-group 1

- Initialize frontend project

**Vincenzo**

- Us3Bi01 - Create canvas component
- Us3Bi03 - Create drawing tools

**Mira**

- Us3Bi01 - Create canvas component
- Us3Bi02 - Create separate roles for drawing and viewing canvas

**Craig**

- Us3Bi04 - Create websocket for transferring canvas content between drawer and server

**Melissa**

- Us3Bi04 - Create websocket for transferring canvas content between drawer and server

**Ana**

- Research on logic of the canvas

**Daria**

- Research on logic of the canvas

---

## Sprint 1 planning - 14.02.2022

- Team is splitting up into the two defined subgroups
- Teams do separate meetings and write down notes
- Group 1: Work us User Story 3
  - Come up with backlogs for their user story
  - Sets up the frontend project
- Group 2: Work us User Story 5
  - Come up with backlogs for their user story
  - Sets up the backend project

---

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 14.02.2022

- Vedat stays the SCRUM master
- Vedat needs help with Git
- Team came up with new backlogs
- The existing backlogs for US5 are too massive

---

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 18.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- People who were not present:
  - Vedat: Give reason to be absent in time to all team members
  - Anna: Is sick, gave reason long before the meeting
  - Melissa: Let all team members know that she will be absent with a valid reason
- Craig:
  - US3-BI04 (Just study, no actual work done)
  - Likely will need help
- Daria:
  - Almost done, only few things need to be changed
- Filippos:
  - US05-BI03 (All done, merged)
- Lukman
  - US05-BI04 (All done, needs testing)
  - Waiting for other team member to confirm (told them about this)
- Marko
  - Works on local machine
  - Might need help on connection the ends
  - Will finish hopefully tonight
- Mira
  - Worked on Canvas with Vince
  - Encountered some trouble
  - Tailwind still doesn't work perfectly (needs help, though should be fixed)
- Peter
  - Work finished, merged
- Vince

  - Worked with Mira
  - After the weekend ready for new task

- Generic remarks:
  - Next time we should make more, smaller backlog items to make sure we have less blocking items

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 18.02.2022

- Vedat, our SCRUM master is absent. Peter is being the SCRUM master for this meeting.
- Created a new BackLog item (US05-BI07)
- Assigned a new backlog item to all present members

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 28.02.2022

**Peter** – Super Scrum Master

- People who were not present:
  - Marko: Did not give a reason in advance to the team only to one team member today at 8am
  - Lukman: Late but is coming

- Vedat
  - Needed client side, so did work of Lukman
  - Needs help, work not yet done

- Mira
  - Progress made, not yet done, will be ready maybe today
  - Would like some help

- Daria
  - Didn't get new task, thus didn't do any task due to real life issues 

- Vince
  - Yesterday got new task
  - Progress made

- Anna
  - Got no tasks due to COVID, thus no progress made by her

- Craig
  - Works with Melissa
  - Went well but encountered a glitch, need help (with canvas)

- Melissa
  - Encountered merge issues, had to modify design
  - Need to discuss with team
  - Glitches found, need to discuss with team together
  - Task is basically dune, but is glitchy

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 01.03.2022

- Was a quick SCRUM meeting to assign new task to those who were done with their tasks
- Present: Filippos, Vedat (SCRUM master), Peter
- Goal:
  - Assign new items to Peter and Filippos
  - Help Vedat with his code
- Peter: Got task `US04-BI03`
- Filippos: Got task `US04–BI08`
- Other
  - Had a long discussion on what to do with Marko's tasks as we have no idea on the progress of his 2 tasks (other than some work being up on GitLab) and one task is vital for the demo for the publisher
  - No decision has been made: Hoping Marko will do his task in time and we won't take over in case he has made progress

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 04.03.2022
- Not present:
  - Ana: Sent message 1 hour before meeting that she can't attend due to her laptop being broken. She let us know that she is done with her task (models). She needs help with the deployment diagram
- Craig:
  - Task finished after help
- Mira:
  - Task finished, ready for merge
- Melisa:
  - Task finished, branch merged
- Filippos:
  - Item 50% done. Currently fixing merge conflicts and deploying the merged codes
  - Will be done with his item in a day
  - Suggested: A lot of branches are long out of date from main
- Vedat:
  - Was stuck on an issue with the backend, but Marko fix it for him. Branch now merged.
- Vince:
  - Finished with his item yesterday
  - Started working on an new item. Should be merged too
- Daria:
  - Needed to work on docs
  - Needs some help with the structure and the diagrams
- Lukman:
  - Done with his item, ready to get new item
- Marko:
  - Finished both item, but the usernames need to be changed (its hardcoded right not)
  - Progressbar is done, just missis some minor functionality
- Peter:
  - Done with his item
  - Started to fix styling issues since finished quickly with his main task. Fix are done. Styling and responsive design still needs polishing
- New SCRUM master for Group 1: **Mira**
- New SCRUM master for Group 2: **Lukman**
- Last merge: Sunday early afternoon for functionality
- Agreements on presentation for Sprint 1 pitch:
  - Presentation will go over: 
    - demo
    - what our game is about (quick recap)
    - plans for sprint 2
  - Mira will create the presentation slides
  - Mira, Melissa, Vince will present

## SCRUM Sprint 1 retrospective (Entire team) - 07.03.2022
- Everyone is present
- See notes in `team-plan.md`

## SCRUM Sprint 2 planning (Entire team) - 07.03.2022
- Everyone is present
- Group 1 will work on:
  - US1
- Group 2 will work on:
  - US11

## SCRUM group 2 planning - 07.03.2022
- Marko is not present because of work, everyone else is
- Task: creating backlog items for US11
  
- What needs to be done:
  - Implement teams (team members, team types - draw/guesser, permissions for chat/buttons)
  - Implement UI indicators on the webpage (current level, emerald shards collected in current level)
  - Implement team stats (stores for emeralds, levels)
  - Move team indicators on the progress bar
    - Reward progress on progress bar for team(s) when they guessed a word
    - Place back team members to the beginning when they reached the end and increment the shards multiplier
  - Implement database
    - User data (accounts name, password, shards)
  - Implement UI for drawing team
    - Time remaining indicator
    - What word to draw
    - At the end of the round how many teams guessed the word
  - Progression for the drawing team
    - At the end of the round calculate progress for the drawing team
  - Matchmaking
    - Newly joined users must be placed in a team
    - A team needs to be automatically created
  - Digging distance
  - Connect team members list (who draws, who is current user, etc) with the fronted
  - Ability in the UI to chose who will draw (voting system)
    - Handel who draws in the backend
  
## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 11.03.2022
- Not present: Vince (got covid, in quarantine)
- Vedat:
  - Created database
  - Task deployed on VPS
  - Peter help with implementation
- Marko:
  - Sort of did it, but got an error
  - Have to fix the error first (let it known in Discord before the meeting), will need help most likely
  - Did some refactoring because of Lukeman
- Lukeman:
  - Still working on his task
  - Original task was already done, thus took an other one
- Daria:
  - First task is completed
  - Second task is still in progress
- Filippos:
  - Task done, merged 
  - Did deployments for database
- Craig:
  - Core task finished with Melissa
- Ana:
  - Had issues with Tailwind, Filippos will help
  - Task only has bugs
- Mira:
  - Task done, ready to be merged
- Melissa:
  - Waits for Ana's and Mira's work
  - Main task is done
- Peter:
  - Main task is done, but not fully complete

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 12.03.2022
- Everyone is present
- Filippos, previous task finished, got new task
- Peter is finished with core task, polishing will be completed in sprint 3. Now will work on docs for the protocol spec
- Vedat's task was done, taking a new task
- Marko got new task, still working on previous task. Both of them should be done by Tuesday
- Lukman got a new task, still working on it
  - Main task is done, but not fully complete
  
## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 14.03.2022
- Not present: Vedat (he said he would join, but he is ill)
- Melissa and Craig:
  - Task is done, it only needs now connecting to the backend
- Ana:
  - Fixed login page with Filippos
  - Some basic research on how to get emeralds when a guess is correct, haven't done code for that
- Daria:
  - Needs help, Mira will help
- Vince:
  - Made an offline version because of being blocked by other issues
  - Done but not yet connected
- Filippos:
  - Not yet worked on it since his item seems very similar to Marko's item
  - Needs to coordinate with Marko
  - We might have 3 items that are seem very similar
- Marko:
  - Haven't done much on those 2 items since being blocked by other items
  - Can continue with items
- Lukman:
  - Still working on item
  - Done a lot of research
  - Will be done in 1-2 days
- Mira:
  - Item completed
- Peter:
  - Item completed
- Group 1 will do a group meeting tomorrow

## SCRUM Standup (Group 2) - 14.03.2022
- Vedat is missing, we do not know the progress of his item
- Filippos, Lukman and Marko is still working
- Peter is done with task, got new item

## SCRUM Standup (Entire team) - 18.03.2022
- Everyone is present (hybrid class: partly online and on site)
- Ana:
  - Her user story was already implemented by Melissa and Craig, thus she's working on getting emeralds out of the collected shards
- Lukman:
  - Task completed, he will get a new issue today
  - Fixed the backlogs
- Marko:
  - Original task was already done by someone, but parts of the task is still pending
  - He tried to make the game prettier, but has merge conflicts, thus cannot yet be merged
- Vedat:
  - His task was already done by Marko
  - Was sick the whole week, will get a new task today
- Vince:
  - Tasks gotten are done
  - Assigned himself to a new task since previous tasks were done
    - Needs help with current item
- Craig:
  - Got 2 tasks this week, since one was blocked by Melissa's task, so did bug fixes this week
- Daria:
  - Finished tasks
  - Works on moderation task right now
    - Needs help and feedback
- Filippos:
  - Task done
- Peter:
  - Task done
- Melissa:
  - Did more than original task
  - Not completely done yet
- Mira:
  - Task could use more styling, but done
  - Added missing documentation